Now, to install external packages you use
pip, but make sure that you know your
packages there's a lot of packages
in the python package index.
You can browse them at pypi.org.
So for example, let's look up a request.
And we should see, The library
that we're looking for right here.
Make sure that you check and
see, well, okay,
this is 43,000 stars on GitHub
it's probably the right thing.
There are a lot of libraries
that have similar names and
there have been malicious libraries that
have popped up for common misspellings.
So it's very important to verify your
external package names before you
run the command.
Better yet,
copy the package name straight from pypi.
If we go here, there's just a big blue
button here where you can copy it.
So you don't have to risk typing it in and
getting it wrong.
A little bit about the requests library.
We saw it early on in the course,
it allows us to make requests and
get back responses.
The first thing we would
want to do is import it,
and let's use the shibe online API which
returns, Shibe dog.
Is that the right way of pronouncing it,
shibe?
I'm gonna go with that but
tldr API with cute puppies.
So now that you've installed requests
in your virtual environment,
you can copy this file.
And we're going to call it shebi.py.
And we're going to run it.
And what we did here was define a URL.
We got a response by calling request.get.
We found out what the status code was,
in this case it was 200.
We got the results as JSON and
then we printed it out.
So we got a list with an image URL.
I'm going to click on it.
It is adorable.
No, puppy.
Cool, so how do we deal with errors?
If we try to pass in a non existent URL,
we're going to get a 404.
So, we want to make sure that
we check the status code.
And we can also pass in
different parameters when
we use the requests
library just like this.
And let's copy this whole thing over.
Oops, that is not what I wanted.
No, I have angered my rebel.
Let's reopen that again.
So here, I am now defining
a parameters count 10 and
I'm passing in those
parameters with the request.
I'm getting that JSON.
And now because it's a list
that has multiple items in it,
I am looping over it and printing it out.
Now I have 10 puppy
pictures to choose from.
I'm gonna open this one.
Very cute.
So that's how you pass in parameters.
That's the 1000 level overview
of the request library.
If you want to learn more about it after
the class, take a look at the Quickstart.
It's very powerful.
So we are now going to take a short break.
Let's say about 20 minutes and
over break take a look at the practice for
object oriented Python.
Go ahead and skip over the practice for
inheritance and
come back to it after class,
it's a more involved topic and
follow through with the practice for
libraries and modules.
Once we come back from break,
we're gonna talk about our final topic,
which is web frameworks and Django.
I'm sure your brains are totally
full of knowledge right now,
before we go on break,
are there any questions?
Can you have multiple tries?
Generally not.
No, I think that's
a syntax error in python.
And for questions like that, I would
recommend that you type them out in
the rubble, that would be a very quick and
easy way to get an answer for that.
Yeah, there we go.
So as soon as I tried that
I get a syntax error.
Each try needs to have an accept
associated with it, one or more.
And then you can have separate
try blocks later on in your code.